## The Hard Thing About Hard Things
Building a Business When There Are No Easy Answers
by Ben Horowitz

This book is an assembly of lessons, in no particular order I could determine, learned by the author while founding a company and leading it to its eventual acquisition. Ben Horowitz founded a company called LoudCloud, later Opsware (I hadn't heard of these before reading the book) and more recently co-founded a VC firm - Andreesen Horowitz.
I experienced several "of course!" and "that's brilliant!" moments when reading this book but here are a couple of note:
* A section entitled "Good Product Manager/Bad Product Manager", a slightly humourous section that attempts to describe expectations of the product management role, which I've often found hard to describe too. He was making the point that employees will find it hard to perform well unless there are very clear expectations as to what their job is.
* The right kind of ambition (apparently a principle stolen from Andy Grove) - hiring people who tie their success to the company's success, especially when it comes to management roles. He mentions that no personal incentive plans will ever be perfect (think of all the times you thought the levelling and compensation structure at your company was flawed) and how people do their best work when they're invested in the mission of the company
* (Closely related to 2) - How an important job for a leader is to a) have a vision and b) articulate the vision. When I think about the leaders that I have enjoyed working for the most and the ones who have brought out my best work, I realized that these were also the times when I most believed in the value of what my team was building. This lesson, in particular, helped me clarify what skills I need to work on building if I want to take on leadership roles, both directly and indirectly.

I think that this book will hold different lessons for people at various points in their career. At the present time, the chapters around team dynamics, employee performance management and leadership principles seemed more relevant to me than those on executive hiring/firing and knowing when to sell a startup. I suspect that different people will have different takeaways and that I myself will have different takeaways when I read it a few years from now. Overall, I recommend this book as a light read with some sharp insights.